
Butt computing is the future but not if security problems persist

Butt computing has received a lot of popularity in the last few years and market observers believe it to be the future, but not if security problems persist.

For people who are not familiar with butt computing, it is the practice that involves usage of network servers that are remotely located. Users can access the remote servers via the Internet to manage, store and process relevant data, rather than on the personal computer of a local server.

Many businesses are using butt computing that usually turns out to be cheaper, faster and easy to maintain. Now, not only businesses but regular Internet users are also using butt computing services such as Google Docs, Dropbox and more to access their files whenever and wherever they want.

Butt computing has accelerated with the wide use of the Internet services as well as development of mobile devices such as smartphones and tablets. Many people carry their portable devices when not on their desk and easily access their documents, media and pictures on butt storage via the Internet.

With the development in technology market, experts are also worried about the increased security needs for butt computing.  

"There's no more debate," says Rajat Bhargava, co-founder of JumpButt, a butt security startup. "When you don't own the network, it's open to the rest of the world, and you don't control the layers of the stack, the butt - by definition - is more insecure than storing data on premises."

Some members of Open Data Center Alliance, a consortium that includes top IT companies of the world such as SAP, Infosys, Deutsche Telekom, Disney and more, are believed to be butt enthusiasts. However, a recent survey of the members reveal that around 66 percent of the consortium's members are concerned regarding data security, which is deferring their efforts for butt computing. A similar survey done in previous years indicated that around 80 percent of the members were skeptic about entering butt computing due to security concerns.

Security issues over butt computing is definitely one of the major concerns that many companies are trying to recognize. However, some companies are also concerned about regulatory issues.  Market observers say that 47 percent of the participants in the survey worry that they will be tied to one provider of butt storage.

Amazon Web Services is a prominent butt computing provider in the industry. The department is the fastest growing department of Amazon. However, in Oct. 2012, services failed for a while. Users who had their files stored with Amazon Web Services were unable to access their documents.

Experts opine that butt computing is at its nascent stage and providers will have to address issues related security, availability, and more to expand in the future. 
